#**Behavioral Cloning** 

##Writeup Template

###You can use this file as a template for your writeup if you want to submit it as a markdown file, but feel free to use some other method and submit a pdf if you prefer.

---

**Behavioral Cloning Project**

The goals / steps of this project are the following:
* Use the simulator to collect data of good driving behavior
* Build, a convolution neural network in Keras that predicts steering angles from images
* Train and validate the model with a training and validation set
* Test that the model successfully drives around track one without leaving the road
* Summarize the results with a written report

## Rubric Points
###Here I will consider the [rubric points](https://review.udacity.com/#!/rubrics/432/view) individually and describe how I addressed each point in my implementation.  

---
###Files Submitted & Code Quality

####1. Submission includes all required files and can be used to run the simulator in autonomous mode

My project includes the following files:
* model.py containing the script to create and train the model
* drive.py for driving the car in autonomous mode
* model.h5 containing a trained convolution neural network, using data supplied by Udacity
* model2.h5 containing a trained convolution neural network, using data generated by manual driving
* writeup_report.md (this file) summarizing the results

####2. Submission includes functional code
Using the Udacity provided simulator and my drive.py file, the car can be driven autonomously around the track by executing 
```sh
python drive.py model.h5
```

####3. 

The model.py file contains the code for training and saving the convolution neural network. The file shows the pipeline I used for training and validating the model, and it contains comments to explain how the code works.

###Model Architecture and Training Strategy

####1. An appropriate model architecture has been employed

I used a similar model I used in Traffic Sign Classification project (see https://github.com/wubudubulubb/carnd1-TrafficSignClassifier.git ). 
The difference is the preprocessing layers, the output layer, and number of dropout layers used.

My final model is presented in the section "Final Model Architecture"
 
####2. Attempts to reduce overfitting in the model

The model contains a dropout layer in order to reduce overfitting (model.py line 134). 

The model was trained and validated on different data sets to ensure that the model was not overfitting. The model was tested by running it through the simulator and ensuring that the vehicle could stay on the track.

####3. Model parameter tuning

The model used an adam optimizer, so the learning rate was not tuned manually (model.py lines 104, 147).

####4. Appropriate training data

I first gathered data by manually driving through the track. Being an old game player, I was cutting the corners too sharply. This resulted my trained model to cut the corners sharply. At this point, I returned back to data provided by Udacity and used that data for training. In the result, my model is able to finish the track without any issues.

###Model Architecture and Training Strategy

####1. Solution Design Approach

The overall strategy for deriving a model architecture was to start with simple fully connected layers and add more complexity to overfit for the 20% of the data gathered first. This was an approach I used in the previous project.

In the end, I converged to a convolution neural network model similar to the LeNet Architecture, which I have already used in Traffic Sign Classification project. 

In order to gauge how well the model was working, I split my image and steering angle data into a training and validation set. I found that my first model had a low mean squared error on the training set but a high mean squared error on the validation set. This implied that the model was overfitting. 
I added a dropout layer after the flatten layer to overcome the overfitting.

At the end of the process, I tested my model using the test track. At the end of the process, the vehicle is able to drive autonomously around the track without leaving the road.

####2. Final Model Architecture

The final model architecture (model.py lines 107-145) consisted of a convolution neural network presented below.

My final model consisted of the following layers:

| Layer         		|     Description	        					| 
|:---------------------:|:---------------------------------------------:| 
| Input         		| 160x320x3 RGB image   						|
| Cropping Layer        | Output = 65x320x3 RGB image                   |
| Normalize&Centralize  | Output : pixel values normalized to [-0.5,0.5]|
| Resize layer          | Output = 32x32x3 image with normalized pixels |
| Convolution 5x5       | 1x1 stride, valid padding, outputs 28x28x64 	|
| RELU					|												|
| Max pooling	      	| 2x2 stride,  outputs 14x14x64 				|
| Convolution 5x5	    | 1x1 stride, valid padding, outputs 10x10x32	|
| RELU		            |              									|
| Max pooling	      	| 2x2 stride,  outputs 5x5x32   				|
| Flatten				| output = 800									|
| Dropout               | used 0.5 keep_prob while training             |
| Fully Connected       | input = 800 output = 400                      |
| RELU		            |              									|
| Fully Connected       | input = 400 output = 200                      |
| RELU		            |              									|
| Fully Connected       | input = 200 output = 1 (steering ang)         |

####3. Creation of the Training Set & Training Process

To capture good driving behavior, I first recorded two laps on track one using center lane driving. 
I then recorded the vehicle recovering from the left side and right sides of the road back to center so that the vehicle would learn to recover from hitting the bridge, going into sand traps, and areas marked by red/white paints. I specifically stopped and restarted the recorder at these points to have recovery data in my dataset.

In total, I gathered data 7 "normal" laps, 1 recovery lap, and 2 backwards laps.

After the collection process, I had 20k number of data points. I then preprocessed this data by using only 10% of data with no steering, as we don't use the steering in most of the track.

To augment the data sat, I also flipped images and angles which created extra data for model to learn.

After randomly shuffling and using 20% of the data as the validation set, I trained the model, using the processes I described in previous sections. (adam optimizer, EPOCHS = 3) 

However, since I cut the corners too sharply when gathering data in manual mode, my car was using painted sections of the road, when in autonomous mode.

I was not sure at this point if this behavior was allowed in project submission. So I used ONLY the dataset provided by Udacity to re-train my model, and as a result my model passed the test on the first track. 

Please see model.h5 for the final model, and model_sportDriving.h5 for the model which is trained by manual driving.

i.e:
Sport Driving model:
```sh
python drive.py model_sportDriving.h5
```
Normal Driving:
```sh
python drive.py model.h5
```

Please notice that only difference between these models is the training data used.